Prototypes on the other
hand are a big part of it.
So testing both in prototypes and
the beta build, this is the time where
you probably wanna do a little bit more in
depth testing in terms of more qualitative
testing cuz we've done a lot of surveying
so far and a lot of data-driven stuff.
But at some point,
we wanna just sanity check it with real
people in a more
qualitative point of view.
So this is where I tend to
introduce unfacilitated testing.
I'm a great fan of unfacilitated
testing cuz it's quick,
but you get real people looking at it.
So instead of you sitting in every test
session having to talk people through it
and all the rest of it, essentially all
you're doing is giving them a task,
a series of tasks to do, asking them
to speak out loud while they do it and
they're recorded doing the process.
So again, a tool like Lyssna or
Maze do a great job at this,
and it's pretty simple to set
up if I'm honest with you,
it's just a matter of going in and
setting each question saying
where the correct location
is that they need to go to.
And then they're taught through it.
So as you can see an example one
running on my own website here,
where they're given the task and
what the task is, etc.
And then they just click and
complete the task.
And you get results back
at the end of the day,
which was working well,
which wasn't working so well, etc.
So that is I'm facilitated
testing worked really well.
But the downside of Lyssna in particular,
is that it gives you a load of statistics
about how well someone completed it, but
doesn't let you watch back the sessions,
which strikes me as a really weird thing.
So, I like to watch the sessions back.
So there's an alternative tool,
which is called Lookback.
And you can use Lookback both for
unfacilitated and facilitated testing.
And I highly recommend it.
You can do facilitated testing
where you moderate it and
you take people through the process.
I mean, you could do that in Zoom.
But I prefer Lookback cuz it's got
certain things that Zoom doesn't have.
So for example, you can add annotations
while someone's talking and
say that was a good bit, let's highlight
that or let's make a note on that.
Also after the event is easy to edit
those down and take out high lights and
low lights and
kind of show it off to the people.
And it does a complete transcript which is
useful because you can search through it
and stuff.
It's not massively
expensive tool to get for
just a month when you
wanna do a bit of testing.
So it's worth having a go with
these tools trying them out.
It can feel a bit intimidating to be
honest with you doing this kind of
testing, but my advice is,
the first time you do it,
just don't tell anyone you're doing it.
And just kinda do it under the radar.
That way, if you make a complete
hash of it and it's a nightmare,
nobody ever needs to know.
[LAUGH] If you've not done it before,
but have a play with these things.
I think testing can become
such a formal thing.
And like so,
you're very grown up proper discipline.
And so we've kind of lost that stuff or
go see what happens,
what's the worst that can happen?
And of course that's how I learned
everything in my career cuz I'm like you
guys, I didn't get proper training
cuz I predated all of that.
And I think we've lost that a little bit
that kind of why now it's all I must
do it properly,
I must do best practice and all of that.
And with my generation, it was like, well,
let's give it a go and see what happens,
and then you learn from doing that so,
give it a go see what happens.
Little bit tips for facilitated usability
testing, if you ever choose to do that.
And again,
I go into this a lot more detail.
And now I'm going through this very fast,
but
I've got a whole separate course on this.
Be very clear,
a lot of people do testing, and
this doesn't just apply to facilitated
usability testing, but testing generally,
they do testing because that's
what you're supposed to do, right?
Rather than testing to
answer a specific question,
or to achieve a specific objective.
So, this is why I do lots of little
tests throughout my process,
because something will pop into my head,
I wonder whether people are gonna
spot that thing I just mocked up.
All right, let's do a bit of testing and
find out, or,
which of these two options
is more important to people?
Let's run a quick survey to find out.
There's always a very clear objective in
the testing that I'm doing rather than,
it's about that time we better do
some testing, why are we doing this?
Try and make your tasks as realistic as
possible, rather than some abstract stuff.
Sometimes I can't think
of a good example now,
but often tasks are like a bit obscure, or
why would anybody be doing that anyway,
you shouldn't be focusing on
testing those kinds of things.
Prepare a script, I find helps a lot,
especially if you've not done facilitated
usability testing before, and
I talked through what should go in that
script a lot more in the other course.
But you've gotta be flexible, right?
People will do something really
weird to partway through, and
don't just move on to the next question,
dig down on that, right?
Or they'll make a comment like,
I don't know, yeah,
I don't get quite what's going on here.
Well, what do you mean,
what is it here that you don't know,
what's going on with or
what's confusing you about that?
Ask lots of follow up questions, so
see your script as a starting point,
not as a straight jacket.
Work hard to relax people, if you do
facilitated testing, and actually that's
one of the drawbacks, although I love
facilitated testing because it means I get
to ask a lot of follow up questions,
I get to know people a bit.
It's more, It provides better
kind of connection and empathy.
Its drawback is that people
feel awkward doing it.
They're worried about offending,
they're worried about being watched,
they feel like they're
going to do it wrong.
So you've got to work really
hard to relax people.
And whether you're doing facilitated or
unfacilitator,
get people to think out loud, right?
You really have to hammer that home with
unfacilitated because you don't get to
follow up.
You got to say it very upfront,
we need you to speak out loud.
We need you to say what you're looking
at and what you're thinking and
you're what you're intending to do
next and all that kind of stuff.
But at least we've facilitated,
if they go quiet, you can say, so
what are you thinking?
What's going through your head?
What are you looking at,
that kind of thing?
Try and remain neutral, and
this applies to all testing.
So wording questions and tasks is so
easy to introduce bias in it or
give away stuff.
If somebody's got to go into,
I don't know.
The DIY category of an e-commerce site,
right?
I don't know why that was
the first thing to pop in my head.
I hate the other way.
But yeah,
if you gotta go into the DIY category,
you don't word the question
along the lines of,
go and buy a DIY product cuz
that's just too leading.
You say something like, you're planning
to build some shelves in your bedroom and
you need some tools to help you deal
with that, where would you look?
You see the difference.
One's much more of a scenario, a story
that avoids those those leading biases.
Oftentimes, again,
ChatGPT is pretty good for this right?
I often will take my questions or
tasks drop into ChatGPT and
say, help me ensure this is neutral and
I'll say,
I'm using this as a question in a survey,
or I'm using it in usability testing,
ensure this question is
as neutral as possible.
If they've got any questions, I tend to
answer those at the end of sessions rather
than during the session because I don't
wanna feed them additional information, so
I apologize by not answering the questions
that they have, cuz am I doing this right?
Does this mean this?
And that kind of thing, and you don't
wanna be answering those but you do wanna
pick them up in the end, and make a show
of showing your gratitude afterwards.
And maybe even giving them something,
an Amazon voucher or
stuff like that really helps if you're
gonna do that kind of in-person stuff and
debrief quickly afterwards,
it's amazing how quickly you'll forget
everything that you've just learned.
I'm very aware that I've
just thrown a lot at you and
this is what we go into much more
in the use of research and testing,
which is called budget friendly and
lack of resources.
That's the whole thing with that.
If you really short on time,
drop facilitated testing.
It takes forever to do, right?
So that one goes out
the window straight away.
I would focus unfacilitated
usability testing can work
really well, but
you don't need to test so many people.
Three, do you know that if you
test with just three people,
you will find about 75% of the possible
issues, which ain't bad, is it?
If you got to sit,
that turns into about 90% and
anything more than that you're
wasting your money, right?
So with usability testing just tests with
three people unfacilitated remote testing.
With some of the others, you don't
need to use all these techniques.
Just pick whichever one that seems
most appropriate in a situation.
So if you have stakeholders moaning about
whether people will spot something,
do a five second test to see
if they remember the thing.
If they think that the look and
feel is terrible,
then do a semantic differential survey,
right?
So it depends on the issues
you're coming up against as
to which testing methodology to use.
And that's what we kind of get
to it on the other course.
But hopefully that helps a little bit.
So usability testing is great
as a just general sanity check,
but then the rest of them is
specific to circumstances, okay?
Which to pick [LAUGH] is actually
the next slide really, so
I'm almost kind of getting
into the same thing.
I mean, when it comes to unfacilitated
testing, if you're gonna consider that,
it's easier to run.
You can do it with more
people if you want to,
because you don't have to
sit through every session.
Tend to get results faster, because you
don't have to arrange people to come
in and all the rest of it or syncing
calendars and all that kind of stuff.
So I find it better thought is
it working kind of testing?
Does this work, does it not?
Do people understand it?
Do they not?
Well, facilitated allows
more guided interactions.
So this is particularly good if your
prototype is a bit rubbish, [LAUGH] right?
Bits of it will break and doesn't work
very well and people are likely to get
lost or confused because you know
you haven't covered everything yet,
then facilitated testing works
better because you can guide people.
It's more adaptable.
You can ask follow up
questions go off on tangents.
You'll learn a lot more about
your users through doing this.
It's easier to get clarification
over things people say, and
it's easier to observe non verbal
cues as well with facilitated.
You don't spot them in
the same way watching a video,
I don't really know why, but you don't.
So I tend to think that I prefer
facilitated when I wanna know why
something's not working, right?
So, yeah, the time I use
facilitated the most is when I
do post-launch optimization and
say, I know people
are failing to complete
a particular task on the website.
So I know it's broken already, right?
Because I've got data that shows me that,
but I have no clue why.
Then I'll do some facilitated testing.